# Belarus
**Region:** Europe and North America

## Key Indicators
**R&D Expenditure (% GDP):** Data on the science intensity of the GDP of the Republic of Belarus are published annually. As of January 24, 2025, the latest official data on the science intensity of the GDP for 2023 is 0.58% (year
**Internet Access:** Data on the population coverage by cellular mobile telecommunications services using LTE (4G) technology in the Republic of Belarus are published annually. As of January 24, 2025, the latest official 

## B1: Promotion of the UNESCO 2021 Recommendation

### B1.2: Translation into national language(s)
Russian

### B1.3: Awareness-raising activities organised
In this part, scientific conferences, forums, and exhibitions financed from budgetary funds are held in Belarus. Examples of such events include: the annual International Scientific Conference "Problems of forecasting and state regulation of socio-economic development" held at the Scientific Research Economic Institute of the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Belarus; the annual International Scientific Conference "Youth in Science - 2024" held at the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus; the annual International Forum on Information and Communication Technologies (TIBO), which includes the International Specialized Exhibition; 16.g - Involvement of the private sector in the discussion of ways to expand the scope of application and joint implementation of the principles and priorities of open science. In order to ensure interaction between government agencies and representatives of the private sector, a number of public councils operate in Belarus: Public Advisory (Expert) Council for the Development of Entrepreneurship in the Scientific, Technical and Innovative Spheres under the State Committee on Science and Technology of the Republic of Belarus (Regulations on the Council: https://www.gknt.gov.by/upload/Deyatelnost/Polozenie% 20ob%20OKS.pdf); Interdepartmental Supervisory Council of Scientific and Educational Networks of Belarus under the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus (composition of the council: https://nasb.gov.by/rus/docs/sovety/nauch-obr.pdf); Public Advisory Council for the Development of Entrepreneurship under the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Belarus (Regulations on the Council: https://edu.gov.by/sistema- obrazovaniya/obshchestvennye-sovety/obshchestvennye-sovety/obschestvenno- konsultativnyj-sovet-po-razvitiyu-predprinimatelstva/). Active interaction of government bodies with subordinate bodies and organizations, with local government and self-government bodies, with the private sector and the public is carried out in the process of scientific support for the development of the country's program and forecast documents: the National Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Belarus, the Program for the Socio-Economic Development of the Republic of Belarus. As part of this activity, round tables and working groups are held. 16.h – Creating conditions for open multilateral discussions in order to discuss the benefits of open science and the real and perceived problems associated with it... In order to ensure a multilateral discussion on the problems, prospects for the use of intellectual property objects, the National Intellectual Property Center holds a large number of thematic events (international scientific and practical conferences, international seminars, etc.): annual International Scientific and Practical Conference "Intellectual Property in the Modern World: Challenges of the Time and Development Prospects"; International seminar “IP and SDGs: innovation and creativity for the benefit of common future" (https://www.ncip.by/o-centre/novosti/sobytiya/24.04_ mezhdunarodnyy-seminar-is-i-tsur-innovatsii-i-tvorchestvo-na-blago-obshchego- budushchego-proshel-v-m/?sphrase_id=111190); Congress of Technology and Innovation Support Centers of the Republic Belarus (https://www.ncip.by/o-centre/novosti/sobytiya/28.11_ii-sezd- tsentrov-podderzhki-tekhnologiy-i-innovatsiy-respubliki-belarus/); International seminar on the issues of valuation of IP objects and their registration in accounting (https://www.ncip.by/o- centre/novosti/sobytiya/14.12_mezhdunarodnyy-seminar-po-voprosam-otsenki-stoimosti- obektov-is-i-postanovki-ikh-na-bukhgalterskiy-u/).

### Links
- https://www.gknt.gov.by/upload/Deyatelnost/Polozenie%
- https://nasb.gov.by/rus/docs/sovety/nauch-obr.pdf
- https://edu.gov.by/sistema-
- https://www.ncip.by/o-centre/novosti/sobytiya/24.04_
- https://www.ncip.by/o-centre/novosti/sobytiya/28.11_ii-sezd-
- https://www.ncip.by/o-

## B2: Open Science Policies & Governance

### B2.1: National STI policy with open science elements
Such documents are: 1. Strategy "Science and Technology: 2018 - 2040" (https://nasb.gov.by/congress2/strategy_2018-2040.pdf). The strategy was developed by the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus and approved by the Resolution of the Presidium of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus dated 26.02.2018 No. 17. 2. State Program of Innovative Development of the Republic of Belarus for 2021 - 2025 (http://www.belisa.org.by/pdf/2022/gpir_2021-2025_22.pdf). Approved by the Decree of the President of the Republic of Belarus dated September 15, 2021 No. 348. The State Program for Innovative Development of the Republic of Belarus for 2021–2025 is the main document ensuring the implementation of the main directions of the state innovation policy. 3. Sections concerning the development of scientific, scientific-technical and innovative spheres are also contained in the National Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Belarus until 2035 (https://economy.gov.by/uploads/files/ObsugdaemNPA/NSUR-2035-1.pdf) and in the Program of Socio-Economic Development of the Republic of Belarus for 2021-2025 (https://president.gov.by/fp/v1/990/document- thumb__33990__original/33990.1629192589.a630b47e0e.pdf). The National Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Belarus until 2035 was approved by the Minutes of the meeting of the Presidium of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus dated 04.02.2020 No. 3. The Program of Social and Economic Development of the Republic of Belarus for 2021-2025 was approved by the Decree of the President of the Republic of Belarus dated 29.07.2021 No. 292. The National Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Belarus until 2035 and the Program of Social and Economic Development of the Republic of Belarus for 2021-2025 were developed by the Ministry of Economy jointly with the Research Economic Institute of the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Belarus with the involvement of interested government agencies and organizations, local government and self-government bodies, and the public in the discussion. The above state documents are based on the following principles of open science: open access to scientific knowledge; open scientific infrastructure; open participation of social actors; open dialogue with other knowledge systems.

### B2.2: National policies/legal frameworks aligned with Recommendation
Such documents are: 1. Strategy "Science and Technology: 2018 - 2040" (https://nasb.gov.by/congress2/strategy_2018-2040.pdf). The strategy was developed by the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus and approved by the Resolution of the Presidium of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus dated 26.02.2018 No. 17. 2. State Program of Innovative Development of the Republic of Belarus for 2021 - 2025 (http://www.belisa.org.by/pdf/2022/gpir_2021-2025_22.pdf). Approved by the Decree of the President of the Republic of Belarus dated September 15, 2021 No. 348. The State Program for Innovative Development of the Republic of Belarus for 2021–2025 is the main document ensuring the implementation of the main directions of the state innovation policy. 3. Sections concerning the development of scientific, scientific-technical and innovative spheres are also contained in the National Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Belarus until 2035 (https://economy.gov.by/uploads/files/ObsugdaemNPA/NSUR-2035-1.pdf) and in the Program of Socio-Economic Development of the Republic of Belarus for 2021-2025 (https://president.gov.by/fp/v1/990/document- thumb__33990__original/33990.1629192589.a630b47e0e.pdf). The National Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Belarus until 2035 was approved by the Minutes of the meeting of the Presidium of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus dated 04.02.2020 No. 3. The Program of Social and Economic Development of the Republic of Belarus for 2021-2025 was approved by the Decree of the President of the Republic of Belarus dated 29.07.2021 No. 292. The National Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Belarus until 2035 and the Program of Social and Economic Development of the Republic of Belarus for 2021-2025 were developed by the Ministry of Economy jointly with the Research Economic Institute of the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Belarus with the involvement of interested government agencies and organizations, local government and self-government bodies, and the public in the discussion. The above state documents are based on the following principles of open science: open access to scientific knowledge; open scientific infrastructure; open participation of social actors; open dialogue with other knowledge systems.

### B2.3: Specific policy instruments promoting open science
The policy instruments aimed at developing open science in Belarus include: 1. Strategy "Science and Technology: 2018 - 2040" (https://nasb.gov.by/congress2/strategy_2018-2040.pdf). Responsible body: National Academy of Sciences of Belarus. The Strategy defines: key features of the future intellectual economy and new contours of its production system; basic foundations, goals, objectives and priorities for the development of the scientific and technological sphere; the main directions of state policy in science and innovation and instruments for stimulating the scientific and technological development of the national economy for the period up to 2040; expected results of the Strategy implementation. It is based on the following principles of open science: open access to scientific knowledge; open scientific infrastructure; open participation of social actors; open dialogue with other knowledge systems. 2. State Program of Innovative Development of the Republic of Belarus for 2021-2025 (http://www.belisa.org.by/ pdf/2022/gpir_2021-2025_22.pdf). Responsible body: State Committee on Science and Technology of the Republic of Belarus. The state program contributes to the implementation of the priorities of the socio-economic development of the Republic of Belarus for 2021-2025 in the field of effective investments and accelerated development of innovative sectors of the economy, the main directions of the state innovation policy, priority areas of scientific, scientific-technical and innovative activities for 2021-2025 and the further development of the national innovation system. Is based on the following principles of open science: open access to scientific knowledge; open scientific infrastructure; open participation of social actors; open dialogue with other knowledge systems. 3. State Program "Science-Intensive Technologies and Equipment" for 2021-2025 (https://nasb.gov.by/rus/activity/issledovaniya/ doc/245_2.pdf). Responsible body: National Academy of Sciences of Belarus. The goal of the State Program is to form a knowledge-intensive economy by ensuring scientific, economic and geopolitical interests of the republic, national bioresource and environmental security, technological development of industries in order to achieve competitive advantages. It is based on the following principles of open science: open access to scientific knowledge; open scientific infrastructure; open participation of social actors; open dialogue with other knowledge systems. 4. State Program "Scientific and Innovative Activities of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus" for 2021-2025 (https://nasb.gov.by/rus/activity/issledovaniya/doc/238_2.pdf). Responsible body: National Academy of Sciences of Belarus. The goal of the State Program is to develop scientific and innovative activities and improve the infrastructure of the NAS of Belarus. It is based on the following principles of open science: open access to scientific knowledge; open scientific infrastructure; open participation of social actors; open dialogue with other knowledge systems. 5. Within the framework of the Union State of Belarus and Russia, a single scientific space is formed by implementing joint scientific programs. Belarusian and Russian scientists jointly develop intelligent electronics, robots and electric motors for cars, laser systems for communication systems and innovative medical products and equipment. The most promising areas are microelectronics, agriculture, medicine and biosafety, social sciences, mechanical engineering, artificial intelligence. In addition, the Resolution of the Supreme State Council of the Union State dated January 29, 2024 No. 2 approved the Strategy for Scientific and Technological Development of the Union State for the period up to 2035 (https://soyuz.by/projects/dekrety-vysshego- gosudarstvennogo-soveta-soyuznogo-gosudarstva/postanovlenie-ot-29-yanvarya- 2024-g-2-o-strategii-nauchno-tehnologicheskogo-razvitiya-soyuznogo- gosudarstva-na-period

### B2.4: National implementation plan / roadmap
Belarus has developed a regulatory framework that complies with the principles of open science. For example: – Resolution of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus dated February 9, 2017 No. 110 "On approval of the Model Regulations on the industry laboratory" (https://pravo.by/document/?guid= 12551&p0=C21700110&p1=1). An industry laboratory is created in order to ensure the implementation of research, development and experimental-technological work, scientific support for innovative projects, pilot testing and the introduction of the results of scientific and scientific-technical activities into production in organizations in a specialized field or industry. – Resolution of the State Committee on Science and Technology of the Republic of Belarus of June 20, 2017 No. 13 "On assigning the status of a center for collective use of unique scientific equipment to organizations (their structural divisions)" (https://pravo.by/document/?guid=12551&p0=W21732196&p1=1). In order to improve the efficiency of using scientific equipment necessary for the development of priority areas of scientific and scientific-technical activity, a network of centers for collective use of unique scientific equipment (CSU) is being developed in the Republic of Belarus. 17.b – Coordination of policies, strategies and actions in the field of open science at different levels - from individual institutions to the local and international levels, while respecting the diversity of scientific approaches. In accordance with the Law of the Republic of Belarus of May 5, 1998 №157-З "On state forecasting and state planning" (https://etalonline.by/document/?regnum=h19800157) state forecasting and planning documents are subordinated and coordinated in terms of goals, priorities, objectives, activities, resources, indicators and implementation deadlines. Thus, sections concerning the development of scientific, scientific-technical and innovation spheres are developed on the basis of the Comprehensive Forecast of scientific and technological progress of the Republic of Belarus within the framework of the National Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Belarus (long-term forecasting document), the Program for the Socio- Economic Development of the Republic of Belarus, state programs, programs for the development of economic sectors (types of economic activity), programs for the socio-economic development of administrative-territorial units of the regional and basic territorial levels (medium-term planning documents). In addition, all draft documents of state forecasting and state planning are necessarily submitted for public professional discussion. 17.c – Comprehensive consideration of gender equality aspects in open science policies, strategies and practices. In the Republic of Belarus, there is no problem of gender inequality in the scientific, scientific-technical and innovation spheres. Thus, as of 2023, the share of women in the total number of researchers was 39% (among candidates of science - 41%, among doctors of science - 22%). 17.f – Expanding the integration of civic and participatory science into open science policies and practices at the national, institutional and funding levels. In this part, in Belarus, in order to ensure interaction between government agencies and representatives of the private sector in the country, a number of public councils operate: Public Advisory (Expert) Council for the Development of Entrepreneurship in the Scientific, Technical and Innovative Spheres under the State Committee on Science and Technology of the Republic of Belarus (Regulations on the Council: https://www.gknt.gov.by/upload/Deyatelnost/ Polozenie%20ob%20OKS.pdf); Interdepartmental Supervisory Council of Scientific and Educational Networks of Belarus under the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus (Composition of the Council: https://nasb.gov.by/rus/docs/sovety/nauch-obr.pdf); 17.h – Support for responsible practices in assessing and an

### B2.5: Institutional open science policies
17.d – Encouraging research institutions, primarily those receiving public funds, to apply policies and strategies in the interests of open science. Reports on research projects subject to state registration are sent to the Belarusian Institute of System Analysis and Information Support for Science and Technology (BelISA), which in turn maintains a register of them and, upon request, provides access to the results of R&D. In addition, BelISA publishes a collection of abstracts of unpublished documents in order to familiarize organizations and specialists in the country with the results of completed R&D and deposited manuscripts. Also, a necessary condition for the provision of grants by the Belarusian Republican Foundation for Fundamental Research (BRFFR) is the obligation of scientists to make the results of their research publicly available by publishing them in scientific journals with a mandatory indication of financial support from BRFFR. Scientific institutions and representatives of state organizations publish analytical information on their websites on the results of the conducted research. Examples include: State Scientific Institution "Research Economic Institute of the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Belarus" - https://niei.by/ru/nauch-izdaniya-ru/; National Academy of Sciences of Belarus - https://nasb.gov.by/rus/activity/razrabotki/. 17. g - Development of models that ensure joint creation of knowledge with the participation of various entities, and development of principles for the recognition of partnerships that go beyond the scientific community. In this part, in the republic, when developing tasks for state scientific research programs, the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus announces a competition of research works for their inclusion as tasks in state scientific research programs, in which both scientists and researchers from the academic environment, and from university science and independent researchers can take part (https://nasb.gov.by/rus/news/10514/).

### B2.6: National funding mechanisms for open science
17.i – Promoting the creation of equal public-private partnerships for open science and engaging the private sector in open science activities, subject to the availability of appropriate certification and regulatory instruments... 18.i – Public agreements reached within regional or global research communities and defining the community's data exchange methods, data formats, metadata standards, ontologies, terminology, tools and infrastructure... 19.c – Financing and supporting advanced educational programs and the professionalization of functions in the field of data science and data management... In terms of using the mechanisms for financing open science, it should be noted that several such mechanisms operate in Belarus: 1. BRFFR grants (example: https://fond.bas-net.by/if201_.html). A prerequisite for the provision of grants from the Belarusian Republican Foundation for Fundamental Research (BRFFR) is the commitment of scientists to make the results of their research public domain by publishing them in scientific journals with a mandatory indication of financial support from the BRFFR. 2. Instruments of state support for innovation projects at the expense of the Belarusian Innovation Fund. 2.1. Innovation voucher (https://belinfund.by/deyatelnost/ vauchery-i-granty/vauchery/): is provided on a non-refundable basis; is issued to individuals and sole proprietors for the implementation of a project at the initial stage (preparatory or design and technological stage). 2.2. Grants (https://belinfund.by/deyatelnost/vauchery-i-granty/granty/): is provided on a non-refundable basis; issued to SMEs during the implementation of the design and technological stage for the implementation of scientific, technical, experimental design and technological work; financing is provided on the condition of financial participation of at least 10% of the total amount of necessary funds.

### B2.7: Open science integrated into research funding
1. In this part, it should be noted that the country implements the joint use of open infrastructure: industry laboratories that are created to ensure the implementation of research, development and experimental-technological work, scientific support for innovative projects, pilot testing and the introduction of the results of scientific and scientific-technical activities into production in organizations in a specialized field or industry; centers for the collective use of unique scientific equipment (CCU). The CCU network is developing in order to increase the efficiency of using scientific equipment necessary for the development of priority areas of scientific and scientific-technical activities. 2. Close cooperation is being implemented with scientists within the framework of the Union State, the EAEU, the CIS, and international cooperation is developing with Asian countries. Thus, in 2024, Belarusian scientists implemented more than 90 joint scientific and technical projects with partners from seven countries, including Azerbaijan, Armenia, India, China, Moldova, Serbia and Uzbekistan. New competitions for joint projects were also announced, and competitions with Turkey, India, Tajikistan and Azerbaijan are planned for 2025. Within the Union State, by the Resolution of the Supreme State Council of the Union State dated January 29, 2024, No. 2, the Strategy for Scientific and Technological Development of the Union State for the period up to 2035 was approved (https://soyuz.by/projects/dekrety-vysshego-gosudarstvennogo-soveta-soyuznogo- gosudarstva/postanovlenie-ot-29-yanvarya-2024-g-2-o-strategii-nauchno- tehnologicheskogo-razvitiya-soyuznogo-gosudarstva-na-period-do-2035-goda), which was discussed both in the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus and in the Russian Academy of Sciences. The strategy provides for the formation of a single scientific, technological and educational space of the Union State. And one of the fundamental principles of scientific and technological development of the Union State is openness: effective interaction of organizations that perform R & D, participants in research and development with representatives of the business community, society and the state, as well as, based on national interests, with the international community. 3. As part of the cooperation between the scientific community and industry, state scientific and technical programs (SSTP) are implemented in the republic, the customers of which, among other things, are industry government bodies, for example (https://www.gknt.gov.by/deyatelnost/gosudarstvennye-nauchno-tekhnicheskie- programmy.php).

### B2.8: Public-private partnerships for open science
17.i – Promoting the creation of equal public-private partnerships in the interests of open science and involving the private sector in open science activities, subject to the availability of appropriate certification and regulatory instruments... The following mechanisms and instruments are used in the republic to develop public-private partnerships in the interests of open science: 1. Participation in the State Program for Innovative Development of the Republic of Belarus (SPID). Representatives of the private sector can submit their innovative projects for implementation to SPID and receive appropriate benefits for the purpose of implementing the relevant project. 2. Instruments of state support for innovative projects at the expense of the Belarusian Innovation Fund: innovation voucher (https://belinfund.by/deyatelnost/vauchery-i- granty/vauchery/); grant (https://belinfund.by/deyatelnost/vauchery-i-granty/granty/). 3. Participation in public councils: public advisory (expert) council for the development of entrepreneurship in the scientific, technical and innovative spheres under the State Committee on Science and Technology of the Republic of Belarus (Regulations on the Council: https://www.gknt.gov.by/upload/Deyatelnost/ Polozenie%20ob%20OKS.pdf); interdepartmental supervisory council of scientific and educational networks of Belarus under the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus (Composition of the council: https://nasb.gov.by/rus/docs/sovety/nauch-obr.pdf); public advisory council for the development of entrepreneurship under the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Belarus (Regulations on the Council: https://edu.gov.by/sistema-obrazovaniya/obshchestvennye- sovety/obshchestvennye-sovety/obschestvenno-konsultativnyj-sovet-po-razvitiyu- predprinimatelstva/). 4. Participation in working groups, round tables in the scientific substantiation of the development of state planning and forecasting documents: the National Strategy for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Belarus, the Program for Socio-Economic Development of the Republic of Belarus. Within the framework of this activity, the work of round tables and working groups is carried out.

### Links
- https://nasb.gov.by/congress2/strategy_2018-2040.pdf
- http://www.belisa.org.by/pdf/2022/gpir_2021-2025_22.pdf
- https://economy.gov.by/uploads/files/ObsugdaemNPA/NSUR-2035-1.pdf
- https://president.gov.by/fp/v1/990/document-
- http://www.belisa.org.by/
- https://nasb.gov.by/rus/activity/issledovaniya/
- https://nasb.gov.by/rus/activity/issledovaniya/doc/238_2.pdf
- https://soyuz.by/projects/dekrety-vysshego-
- https://pravo.by/document/?guid=
- https://pravo.by/document/?guid=12551&p0=W21732196&p1=1
- https://etalonline.by/document/?regnum=h19800157
- https://www.gknt.gov.by/upload/Deyatelnost/
- https://nasb.gov.by/rus/docs/sovety/nauch-obr.pdf
- https://niei.by/ru/nauch-izdaniya-ru/
- https://nasb.gov.by/rus/activity/razrabotki/
- https://nasb.gov.by/rus/news/10514/
- https://fond.bas-net.by/if201_.html
- https://belinfund.by/deyatelnost/
- https://belinfund.by/deyatelnost/vauchery-i-granty/granty/):
- https://soyuz.by/projects/dekrety-vysshego-gosudarstvennogo-soveta-soyuznogo-
- https://www.gknt.gov.by/deyatelnost/gosudarstvennye-nauchno-tekhnicheskie-
- https://belinfund.by/deyatelnost/vauchery-i-
- https://belinfund.by/deyatelnost/vauchery-i-granty/granty/
- https://edu.gov.by/sistema-obrazovaniya/obshchestvennye-

## B3: Infrastructure

### B3.1: R&D expenditure as % of GDP
Data on the science intensity of the GDP of the Republic of Belarus are published annually. As of January 24, 2025, the latest official data on the science intensity of the GDP for 2023 is 0.58% (year of publication - 2024).

### B3.2: Population with access to reliable internet
Data on the population coverage by cellular mobile telecommunications services using LTE (4G) technology in the Republic of Belarus are published annually. As of January 24, 2025, the latest official data relate to 2023 - 98.4% (year of publication - 2024).

### B3.3: National Research and Education Network (NREN)
16.c – Promoting bibliodiversity through diversification of publication formats and media, including in the humanities and social sciences, and diversity of business models by supporting non-profit, academic and scientific community publishing models as a public good. In this part, it should be noted that the following are in operation in Belarus: 1. Network of technology parks. Today, there is a network of 14 technology parks in the country. Technology parks as subjects of innovation infrastructure occupy a key position in the development of innovative entrepreneurship in the Republic of Belarus. Technology parks actively promote the strengthening of integration processes between educational institutions and innovative enterprises in the production, personnel, and research spheres. 2. Network of industry laboratories. An industry laboratory is created for the purpose of ensuring the implementation of research, development and experimental-technological work, scientific support of innovative projects, pilot industrial testing and the introduction into production of the results of scientific and scientific-technical activity in organizations of a specialized field or industry. 3. Network of centers for the collective use of unique scientific equipment (CCU). The network of CCUs is being developed in order to increase the efficiency of the use of scientific equipment necessary for the development of priority areas of scientific and scientific-technical activity.

### B3.4: Open science infrastructure (repositories, HPC, cloud)
18.d – Non-commercial infrastructure facilities, including computing facilities and public digital infrastructure and services, that support open science approaches… 18.e – Interconnected and diversified open science information technology infrastructure, including, where appropriate, high-performance computing, cloud computing, and data storage… 18.k – Infrastructure for non-digital materials (e.g., reagents). 18.l – Platforms for information sharing and co-creation of knowledge between scientists and society, including through predictable and sustainable funding for volunteer organizations conducting citizen science research with local participation. 18.m – Public monitoring and information systems that complement national, regional, and global data and information systems. The country has a national and institutional open science infrastructure, consisting of: 1. Networks of electronic libraries: BSUIR repository - an electronic archive of scientific publications of the staff and teachers of the Belarusian State University of Informatics and Radioelectronics. Provides access to educational and methodological developments, scientific publications, conference materials and much more. The interface is available in Russian (https://libeldoc.bsuir.by/); BGUKI repository - an electronic archive of scientific publications of the Belarusian State University of Culture and Arts. Provides access to publications of the staff and teachers of the university, university publications, the university library. The interface is available in Russian (http://repository.buk.by/); BNTU repository - the repository contains the full texts of methodological guidelines and methodological manuals, monographs, textbooks and teaching aids created at BNTU. The interface is available in Russian (https://rep.bntu.by/). In addition, all five scientific journals of BNTU are connected to the international system of bibliographic references Crossref for digital identification of objects; repository of Polesie State University - an electronic archive of collections of Polesie State University. Provides access to publications of university staff and teachers, university publications, and the university library. The interface is available in Russian (https://rep.polessu.by/); electronic archive of scientific periodicals of the National Academy  of Sciences of Belarus - the electronic archive includes issues of periodicals from 2009 to 2016. Access to the full texts of journals can also be carried out in two ways: through the electronic catalog of the library and the list of Belarusian periodicals on the library website. The interface is available in Russian, Belarusian and English (https://csl.bas-net.by/resursy/pereodika.asp); BSU Electronic Library - the site provides access to the materials and collections of the Belarusian State University. The program interface is available in Russian and English. Some of the materials are available locally through the BSU network. The interface is available in Russian (https://elib.bsu.by/); Masherov VSU Repository - provides full-text access to dissertations and dissertation abstracts, materials of conferences, congresses, seminars, publications of the VSU scientific library, university periodicals, materials of the university staff and teachers. The interface is available in Russian (https://rep.vsu.by/); Infrastructure type: platforms for the exchange and joint creation of knowledge between scientists and society 2. The network of scientific and technical libraries, consisting of the Republican Scientific and Technical Library (RSTL) and its branches (https://rlst.by/). RSTL is a national depository of domestic and foreign literature on engineering, technology, industrial economics and related industries. It is a state repository of patent documentation of the Republic of Belarus, technical regulatory legal acts and other documents in the field of standardization, as well as industrial catalogs. Infrastructure type: pla

### B3.5: Participation in federated international infrastructure
No

### B3.6: North-South / South-South infrastructure collaborations
Close cooperation is being implemented with scientists within the Union State, the EAEU, the CIS, and international cooperation is developing with Asian countries. Thus, in 2024, Belarusian scientists implemented more than 90 joint scientific and technical projects with partners from seven countries, including Azerbaijan, Armenia, India, China, Moldova, Serbia, and Uzbekistan. New competitions for joint projects were also announced, and competitions with Turkey, India, Tajikistan, and Azerbaijan are planned for 2025.

### Links
- https://libeldoc.bsuir.by/
- http://repository.buk.by/
- https://rep.bntu.by/
- https://rep.polessu.by/
- https://csl.bas-net.by/resursy/pereodika.asp
- https://elib.bsu.by/
- https://rep.vsu.by/
- https://rlst.by/

## B4: Education, Capacity Building & Science Communication

### B4.1: Systematic capacity building on open science
19.a – Provide systematic and continuous capacity building in open science concepts and practices, including a broad understanding of the guiding principles and core values ​​of open science… 24 19.c – Fund and support advanced educational programs and the professionalization of functions in the field of data science and management… With regard to the development of open science capacity in higher education institutions, it is necessary to note the presence of: electronic libraries (see paragraphs 1.4 and 3.4); technology parks at universities (e.g. RUE "UNPC "Technolab", Scientific and Technological Park of the Belarusian National Technical University "Polytechnic", etc.); student science and technology laboratories; educational courses on improving literacy in the field of intellectual property, conducted by the National Center of Intellectual Property of the Republic of Belarus; National Children's Technopark.

### B4.3: Open science competencies in higher education curricula
19.b – Coordination of a set of competencies in the field of open science, linked to individual disciplines for researchers at different stages of their careers... In this part, it should be noted that the educational programs of the bachelor's degree provide for the study of the disciplines "Fundamentals of Intellectual Property Management" (http://edoc.bseu.by:8080/handle/edoc/ 18546), "Methodology of Scientific Research" (http://edoc.bseu.by: 8080/bitstream/edoc/101002/1/Metodologiya_nauchnykh_issledovaniy.pdf).

### B4.5: Science communication initiatives
19.e – Supporting scientific communication regarding open science methods in order to disseminate scientific knowledge among scientists from other scientific disciplines, decision-makers and the general public… Close cooperation is being implemented with scientists within the Union State, the EAEU, the CIS and international cooperation is being developed with Asian countries. Thus, in 2024, Belarusian scientists implemented more than 90 joint scientific and technical projects with partners from seven countries, including Azerbaijan, Armenia, India, China, Moldova, Serbia and Uzbekistan. New calls for joint projects have also been announced, and calls with Turkey, India, Tajikistan and Azerbaijan are planned for 2025. Within the Union State, by the Resolution of the Supreme State Council of the Union State dated January 29, 2024, No. 2, the Strategy for Scientific and Technological Development of the Union State for the period up to 2035 was approved (https://soyuz.by/projects/dekrety-vysshego-gosudarstvennogo-soveta-soyuznogo- gosudarstva/postanovlenie-ot-29-yanvarya-2024-g-2-o-strategii-nauchno- tehnologicheskogo-razvitiya-soyuznogo-gosudarstva-na-period-do-2035-goda), which was discussed both in the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus and in the Russian Academy of Sciences. The strategy provides for the formation of a single scientific, technological and educational space of the Union State. And one of the fundamental principles of scientific and technological development of the Union State is openness: effective interaction of organizations that perform R&D, participants in research and development with representatives of the business community, society and the state, as well as, based on national interests, with the international community.

### Links
- http://edoc.bseu.by:8080/handle/edoc/
- http://edoc.bseu.by:
- https://soyuz.by/projects/dekrety-vysshego-gosudarstvennogo-soveta-soyuznogo-

## B5: Research Assessment & Incentives

### B5.1: Review of research assessment processes
In this part, the Resolution of the State Committee on Science and Technology of the Republic of Belarus dated 20.04.2017 No. 9 (https://etalonline.by/document/?regnum=u217e2989) approved the Methodological recommendations for assessing the effectiveness of scientific, scientific-technical and innovative developments and their implementation. The Methodological recommendations are intended for use in planning and assessing the effectiveness of the implementation of: state scientific research programs (SPNI) and their individual tasks; scientific and technical programs (STP) and their individual tasks; activities for scientific support of state programs; innovative projects. When assigning additional payments for an academic degree and academic title, the researcher's scientific activity is analyzed: participation in the implementation of scientific work (topics, programs, projects), participation in scientific events (conferences, round tables, seminars, symposia), scientific publications, reviewing scientific work, membership in editorial boards of scientific publications and specialized councils, training of scientific personnel (master's students, postgraduate students, doctoral students, applicants), training of personnel in a foreign language, and others.

### B5.2: Open science practices in career evaluation
20.a – Bring together a wide range of different stakeholders, including research funding agencies, universities, research institutions, 27 publishers and editors, and learned societies representing different disciplines and countries… 20.c – Promote the development and implementation of assessment and evaluation systems that… 20.d – Ensure that open science skills are widely known and taken into account as criteria for recruitment and promotion in the scientific and academic field. In this part, the country has developed and implemented the Database of Gifted Youth (https://www.giac.by/programmy/bd-odarennoy-molodezhi.php) - a system of centralized recording, accumulation and systematization of information about pupils, students, cadets who have received incentives from the special fund of the President of the Republic of Belarus for social support of gifted pupils and students and who are winners of international and republican Olympiads (competitions, tournaments, other competitions) in academic subjects, who have shown a high level of training in individual subject areas, special successes in research, creative, intellectual activities. Pupils, students, cadets included in the database of gifted youth have a number of benefits and advantages (https://edu.gov.by/molodezhnaya-politika/podderzhka-molodezhi/%D0%91% D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%BA%20%D0%B4%D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%BD% D1%8B%D1%85%20%D0%BE%D0%B4%D0%B0%D1%80%D0%B5%D 0%BD%D0%BD%D0%BE%D0%B9%20%D0%BC%D0%BE%D0%BB% D0%BE%D0%B4%D0%B5%D0%B6%D0%B8%202.0.docx): ‒ according to paragraph 10 of Article 72 Code of the Republic of Belarus on  Education, citizens who are graduates of state  institutions of vocational, secondary specialized and  higher education, included in the database of gifted youth, have the right to priority distribution;  - heads of state bodies and other organizations ensure the creation of conditions for the professional growth of citizens, included in the database of gifted youth, by: assigning them supervision (patronage) from experienced  specialists, teachers, scientists, outstanding cultural figures; referring them to internships, retraining, advanced training; involving them in teaching and research activities; involving them in competitive selection of citizens, included in the database of gifted and young people, when forming personnel reserves; providing the right to priority receipt of residential  premises in a hostel for the period of study; providing other guarantees in accordance with the legislation; ‒ according to the Decree of the President of the Republic of Belarus of January 6, 2012, No. 13 "On Certain Issues of Providing Citizens with State Support for the Construction (Reconstruction) or Acquisition of Residential Premises": the right to receive preferential loans for the construction (reconstruction) or acquisition of residential premises is granted to young adult citizens who are laureates of the special fund of the President of the Republic of Belarus for the social support of gifted pupils and students, - in agreement with the Ministry of Education, and in accordance with the documents confirming such title. In this Decree, young citizens are understood to mean persons under 31 years of age and others. In addition, researchers with academic degrees and academic titles are assigned additional payments in accordance with the Decree of the President of the Republic of Belarus dated September 25, 2007 No. 450 “On the establishment of allowances for academic degrees and titles” (https://etalonline.by/document/?regnum=P30700450).

### B5.3: Initiatives to recognise/reward open science practices
20.a – Bring together a broad range of different stakeholders, including research funding agencies, universities, research institutions, publishers and editors, and learned societies from different disciplines and countries… 20.b – Review research and professional performance assessment systems to align them with open science principles… 20.c – Promote the development and implementation of assessment and evaluation systems that… 20.e – Encourage funding agencies, research institutions, journal editorial boards, learned societies, and publishers to pursue policies… 20.f – Ensure a diversity of forms of scholarly communication that respect the principles of open, transparent, and equitable access, and support not-for-profit and partnership publishing models that do not charge for articles and books. 20.g – Applying effective governance measures and appropriate legislative regulation to address the problem… 20.h – Promoting the dissemination of publicly available materials and developing existing schemes for open licenses and exceptions to copyright and other intellectual property rights… In this part, a number of exhibition events are held in the country, the purpose of which is to highlight the achievements of Belarusian science: exhibitions organized by the State Enterprise "BelExpo";

### Links
- https://etalonline.by/document/?regnum=u217e2989
- https://www.giac.by/programmy/bd-odarennoy-molodezhi.php
- https://edu.gov.by/molodezhnaya-politika/podderzhka-molodezhi/%D0%91%
- https://etalonline.by/document/?regnum=P30700450

## B6: Societal Engagement & Open Innovation

### B6.1: Innovative participatory / societal engagement practices
YES, at the institutional level. BSU, BNTU, and other higher education institutions are particularly active. Assistance is provided to the promotion of open science practices. http://philosophy.by/ru/news/event-2024-03-05/ https://bgut.by/library/news/7-shagov-k-otkrytoy-nauke

### Links
- http://philosophy.by/ru/news/event-2024-03-05/
- https://bgut.by/library/news/7-shagov-k-otkrytoy-nauke

## B7: International Cooperation

### B7.2: Cross-border multi-stakeholder collaboration strategy
Close cooperation is being implemented with scientists within the Union State, the EAEU, the CIS, and international cooperation is developing with Asian countries. Thus, in 2024, Belarusian scientists implemented more than 90 joint scientific and technical projects with partners from seven countries, including Azerbaijan, Armenia, India, China, Moldova, Serbia, and Uzbekistan. New competitions for joint projects were also announced, and competitions with Turkey, India, Tajikistan, and Azerbaijan are planned for 2025. Within the framework of the Union State, by the Resolution of the Supreme State Council of the Union State dated January 29, 2024, No. 2, the Strategy for Scientific and Technological Development of the Union State for the period up to 2035 was approved (https://soyuz.by/projects/dekrety-vysshego-gosudarstvennogo-soveta-soyuznogo- gosudarstva/postanovlenie-ot-29-yanvarya-2024-g-2-o-strategii-nauchno- tehnologicheskogo-razvitiya-soyuznogo-gosudarstva-na-period-do-2035-goda), which was discussed both in the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus and in the Russian Academy of Sciences. This Strategy provides for the formation of a single scientific, technological and educational space of the Union State. And one of the fundamental principles of scientific and technological development of the Union State is openness: effective interaction of organizations performing R&D, participants in research and development with representatives of the business community, society and the state, as well as based on national interests with the international community.

### B7.3: Regional/international funding mechanisms for open science
In this regard, the Republic of Belarus participates in Union programs and projects financed from the budget of the Union State. Examples include the following Union programs: "SG Complex" - development of basic elements of orbital and ground-based facilities for future multi-satellite constellations of small-sized spacecraft for observing the Earth's surface and near-Earth space; "Intelauto" - development of an on-board electronics system for motor vehicles that are superior to existing analogues, including engine control, on-board safety, robotic control, highly efficient electric motors and other components for electric and hybrid transport; "Component-F" - development of the most popular photonic materials, components and modules for mechanical engineering and machine tool building, information technology and communications, thermonuclear energy and the aerospace industry, as well as special equipment.

### Links
- https://soyuz.by/projects/dekrety-vysshego-gosudarstvennogo-soveta-soyuznogo-
